README.md, before:

<img src="https://github.com/yacineMTB/dingllm.nvim/assets/10282244/d03ef83d-a5ee-4ddb-928f-742172f3c80c" alt="wordart (6)" style="width:200px;height:100px;">

### dingllm.nvim

Yacine's no frills LLM nvim scripts. free yourself, brothers and sisters

This is a really light config. I _will_ be pushing breaking changes. I recommend reading the code and copying it over - it's really simple.

https://github.com/yacineMTB/dingllm.nvim/assets/10282244/07cf5ace-7e01-46e3-bd2f-5bec3bb019cc

### Credits

This extension woudln't exist if it weren't for https://github.com/melbaldove/llm.nvim

I diff'd on a fork of it until it was basically a rewrite. Thanks @melbaldove!

The main difference is that this uses events from plenary, rather than a timed async loop. I noticed that on some versions of nvim, melbaldove's extension would deadlock my editor. I suspected nio, so i just rewrote the extension.

### lazy config

Add your API keys to your env (export it in zshrc or bashrc)

````
  {
    'yacineMTB/dingllm.nvim',
    dependencies = { 'nvim-lua/plenary.nvim' },
    config = function()
      local system_prompt =
        'You should replace the code that you are sent, only following the comments. Do not talk at all. Only output valid code. Do not provide any backticks that surround the code. Never ever output backticks like this ```. Any comment that is asking you for something should be removed after you satisfy them. Other comments should left alone. Do not output backticks'
      local helpful_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. What I have sent are my notes so far. You are very curt, yet helpful.'
      local dingllm = require 'dingllm'


      local function handle_open_router_spec_data(data_stream)
        local success, json = pcall(vim.json.decode, data_stream)
        if success then
          if json.choices and json.choices[1] and json.choices[1].text then
            local content = json.choices[1].text
            if content then
              dingllm.write_string_at_cursor(content)
            end
          end
        else
          print("non json " .. data_stream)
        end
      end

      local function custom_make_openai_spec_curl_args(opts, prompt)
        local url = opts.url
        local api_key = opts.api_key_name and os.getenv(opts.api_key_name)
        local data = {
          prompt = prompt,
          model = opts.model,
          temperature = 0.7,
          stream = true,
        }
        local args = { '-N', '-X', 'POST', '-H', 'Content-Type: application/json', '-d', vim.json.encode(data) }
        if api_key then
          table.insert(args, '-H')
          table.insert(args, 'Authorization: Bearer ' .. api_key)
        end
        table.insert(args, url)
        return args
      end


      local function llama_405b_base()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://openrouter.ai/api/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'meta-llama/llama-3.1-405b',
          api_key_name = 'OPEN_ROUTER_API_KEY',
          max_tokens = '128',
          replace = false,
        }, custom_make_openai_spec_curl_args, handle_open_router_spec_data)
      end

      local function groq_replace()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'llama-3.1-70b-versatile',
          api_key_name = 'GROQ_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = system_prompt,
          replace = true,
        })
      end

      local function groq_help()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'llama-3.1-70b-versatile',
          api_key_name = 'GROQ_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
          replace = false,
        })
      end


    local function ollama_replace()
      dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
        url = 'http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions',
        model = 'llama3.1', -- or any other model you have in Ollama
        api_key_name = 'ollama', -- Ollama doesn't require an API key
        system_prompt = system_prompt,
        replace = true,
      }, dingllm.make_openai_spec_curl_args, dingllm.handle_openai_spec_data)
    end

    local function ollama_help()
      dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
        url = 'http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions',
        model = 'llama3.1', -- or any other model you have in Ollama
        api_key_name = 'ollama', -- Ollama doesn't require an API key
        system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
        replace = false,
      }, dingllm.make_openai_spec_curl_args, dingllm.handle_openai_spec_data)
    end

      local function openai_replace()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'gpt-4o',
          api_key_name = 'OPENAI_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = system_prompt,
          replace = true,
        })
      end

      local function openai_help()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'gpt-4o',
          api_key_name = 'OPENAI_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
          replace = false,
        })
      end

      local function anthropic_help()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages',
          model = 'claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620',
          api_key_name = 'ANTHROPIC_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
          replace = false,
        })
      end

      local function anthropic_replace()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages',
          model = 'claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620',
          api_key_name = 'ANTHROPIC_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = system_prompt,
          replace = true,
        })
      end

      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>k', groq_replace, { desc = 'llm groq' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>K', groq_help, { desc = 'llm groq_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>L', openai_help, { desc = 'llm openai_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>l', openai_replace, { desc = 'llm openai' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>I', anthropic_help, { desc = 'llm anthropic_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>i', anthropic_replace, { desc = 'llm anthropic' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>o', ollama_replace, { desc = 'llm ollama' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>O', ollama_help, { desc = 'llm ollama_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>o', llama_405b_base, { desc = 'llama base' })
    end,
  },

````

### Documentation

read the code dummy

Commit message:

chore: add api key setup instructions to readme

README.md, after:

<img src="https://github.com/yacineMTB/dingllm.nvim/assets/10282244/d03ef83d-a5ee-4ddb-928f-742172f3c80c" alt="wordart (6)" style="width:200px;height:100px;">

### dingllm.nvim

Yacine's no frills LLM nvim scripts. free yourself, brothers and sisters

This is a really light config. I _will_ be pushing breaking changes. I recommend reading the code and copying it over - it's really simple.

https://github.com/yacineMTB/dingllm.nvim/assets/10282244/07cf5ace-7e01-46e3-bd2f-5bec3bb019cc

### Credits

This extension woudln't exist if it weren't for https://github.com/melbaldove/llm.nvim

I diff'd on a fork of it until it was basically a rewrite. Thanks @melbaldove!

The main difference is that this uses events from plenary, rather than a timed async loop. I noticed that on some versions of nvim, melbaldove's extension would deadlock my editor. I suspected nio, so i just rewrote the extension.

### API key setup

Edit your ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc to export your API keys.

```bash
  # add the following lines to your ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc
  export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-proj-************************************************
  # export your other keys...
```

Alternatively you can directly append your API key to either config file from the terminal.

```bash
  echo 'export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-proj-************************************************' >> ~/.bashrc # change to ~/.zshrc if you use zsh.
  # export your other keys...
```

Finally, source your config file again and echo your key to verify it's in the env.

```bash
  source ~/.bashrc # change to ~/.zshrc if you use zsh.
  echo $OPENAI_API_KEY
```

### lazy config

````
  {
    'yacineMTB/dingllm.nvim',
    dependencies = { 'nvim-lua/plenary.nvim' },
    config = function()
      local system_prompt =
        'You should replace the code that you are sent, only following the comments. Do not talk at all. Only output valid code. Do not provide any backticks that surround the code. Never ever output backticks like this ```. Any comment that is asking you for something should be removed after you satisfy them. Other comments should left alone. Do not output backticks'
      local helpful_prompt = 'You are a helpful assistant. What I have sent are my notes so far. You are very curt, yet helpful.'
      local dingllm = require 'dingllm'


      local function handle_open_router_spec_data(data_stream)
        local success, json = pcall(vim.json.decode, data_stream)
        if success then
          if json.choices and json.choices[1] and json.choices[1].text then
            local content = json.choices[1].text
            if content then
              dingllm.write_string_at_cursor(content)
            end
          end
        else
          print("non json " .. data_stream)
        end
      end

      local function custom_make_openai_spec_curl_args(opts, prompt)
        local url = opts.url
        local api_key = opts.api_key_name and os.getenv(opts.api_key_name)
        local data = {
          prompt = prompt,
          model = opts.model,
          temperature = 0.7,
          stream = true,
        }
        local args = { '-N', '-X', 'POST', '-H', 'Content-Type: application/json', '-d', vim.json.encode(data) }
        if api_key then
          table.insert(args, '-H')
          table.insert(args, 'Authorization: Bearer ' .. api_key)
        end
        table.insert(args, url)
        return args
      end


      local function llama_405b_base()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://openrouter.ai/api/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'meta-llama/llama-3.1-405b',
          api_key_name = 'OPEN_ROUTER_API_KEY',
          max_tokens = '128',
          replace = false,
        }, custom_make_openai_spec_curl_args, handle_open_router_spec_data)
      end

      local function groq_replace()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'llama-3.1-70b-versatile',
          api_key_name = 'GROQ_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = system_prompt,
          replace = true,
        })
      end

      local function groq_help()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.groq.com/openai/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'llama-3.1-70b-versatile',
          api_key_name = 'GROQ_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
          replace = false,
        })
      end


    local function ollama_replace()
      dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
        url = 'http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions',
        model = 'llama3.1', -- or any other model you have in Ollama
        api_key_name = 'ollama', -- Ollama doesn't require an API key
        system_prompt = system_prompt,
        replace = true,
      }, dingllm.make_openai_spec_curl_args, dingllm.handle_openai_spec_data)
    end

    local function ollama_help()
      dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
        url = 'http://localhost:11434/v1/chat/completions',
        model = 'llama3.1', -- or any other model you have in Ollama
        api_key_name = 'ollama', -- Ollama doesn't require an API key
        system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
        replace = false,
      }, dingllm.make_openai_spec_curl_args, dingllm.handle_openai_spec_data)
    end

      local function openai_replace()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'gpt-4o',
          api_key_name = 'OPENAI_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = system_prompt,
          replace = true,
        })
      end

      local function openai_help()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions',
          model = 'gpt-4o',
          api_key_name = 'OPENAI_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
          replace = false,
        })
      end

      local function anthropic_help()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages',
          model = 'claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620',
          api_key_name = 'ANTHROPIC_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = helpful_prompt,
          replace = false,
        })
      end

      local function anthropic_replace()
        dingllm.invoke_llm_and_stream_into_editor({
          url = 'https://api.anthropic.com/v1/messages',
          model = 'claude-3-5-sonnet-20240620',
          api_key_name = 'ANTHROPIC_API_KEY',
          system_prompt = system_prompt,
          replace = true,
        })
      end

      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>k', groq_replace, { desc = 'llm groq' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>K', groq_help, { desc = 'llm groq_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>L', openai_help, { desc = 'llm openai_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>l', openai_replace, { desc = 'llm openai' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>I', anthropic_help, { desc = 'llm anthropic_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>i', anthropic_replace, { desc = 'llm anthropic' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>o', ollama_replace, { desc = 'llm ollama' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>O', ollama_help, { desc = 'llm ollama_help' })
      vim.keymap.set({ 'n', 'v' }, '<leader>o', llama_405b_base, { desc = 'llama base' })
    end,
  },

````

### Documentation

read the code dummy
